feat(component/otelcol/connector): add count connector (#4610)
grafana/alloy: docs/sources/reference/components/otelcol/otelcol.connector.count.md

---
canonical: https://grafana.com/docs/alloy/latest/reference/components/otelcol/otelcol.connector.count/
aliases:
  - ../otelcol.connector.count/ # /docs/alloy/latest/reference/components/otelcol.connector.count/
description: Learn about otelcol.connector.count
labels:
  stage: experimental
  products:
    - oss

> title: otelcol.connector.count

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - oss
  tags:
    - text: Community
      tooltip: This component is developed, maintained, and supported by the Alloy user community.
title: otelcol.connector.count
```

This looks like it's a community contributed component, so we should add this to the metadata

---

# `otelcol.connector.count`

> `otelcol.connector.count` counts spans, span events, metrics, data points, log records and profiles from other `otelcol` components and outputs metrics from these counts.

Reviewer 2: same as above

| [`count`][count] | Configures a custom count (can be used multiple times). | yes      |

[count]: #count

### `count`

#### Arguments

| Name          | Type                            | Description                                                                 | Default | Required |
|---------------|---------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------|----------|
| `name`        | `string`                        | Name of the metric emitted for this count.                                  |         | yes       |
| `description` | `string`                        | Description of the metric emitted for this count.                           | `"The number of spans observed."` or <br> `"The number of span events observed."` or <br> `"The number of metrics observed."` or <br> `"The number of data points observed."` or <br> `"The number of log records observed."` or <br> `"The number of profiles observed."` <br> depending on the counted data. | no       |
| `conditions`  | `list(string)`                  | Data that matches any one of the conditions will be counted.                | `[]`    | no       |

> | `attributes`  | [`map(attributes)`][attributes] | A separate count will be generated for each unique set of attribute values. | `{}`    | no       |

Reviewer: Similar comment here. The style for documenting arguments in a block is a bit different than used here. Take a look at the source for any other component and you will see that we don't use an `#### Arguments` heading.

Also, don't use `<br>` tags in table cells. For something like row 127 with multiple defaults, I'd put `Depends on the counted data` and then below the table I'd explain the various possible values. Refer to other components to see how we do this.

### `output`

{{< badge text="Required" >}}

{{< docs/shared lookup="reference/components/output-block-metrics.md" source="alloy" version="<ALLOY_VERSION>" >}}

### `debug_metrics`

{{< docs/shared lookup="reference/components/otelcol-debug-metrics-block.md" source="alloy" version="<ALLOY_VERSION>" >}}

## Exported fields

The following fields are exported and can be referenced by other components:

| Name    | Type               | Description                                                      |
|---------|--------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `input` | `otelcol.Consumer` | A value that other components can use to send telemetry data to. |

`input` accepts `otelcol.Consumer` traces, metrics, logs and profiles telemetry data.

## Component health

`otelcol.connector.count` is only reported as unhealthy if given an invalid configuration.

## Debug information

`otelcol.connector.count` doesn't expose any component-specific debug information.

## Example

### Default counts

The example below accepts metrics, logs and traces, and writes them respectively to Mimir, Loki and Tempo.

> In addition it creates the default counts on them (everything is counted and the default metrics name and description are used) and writes the metrics to Mimir.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example show how you can receive metrics, logs and traces, and write them respectively to Mimir, Loki and Tempo.
The example also shows you how to create the default counts on your telemetry and write the metrics to Mimir. Everything is counted and the default metrics name and description are used.
```
